README.rst, before:

netboxapi-client
================

This is a python client for netbox (https://github.com/digitalocean/netbox) API. It can be used either as a python module/library or directly from the command line.
The goal of this project is to provide a simple way to automate infrastructure documentation based on the REST API from that great project that is Netbox.

Status
------

Under development

Installation
------------

You can clone that repo and install locally with:

.. code-block:: bash

	python setup.py build && pip install -e .

Proper pypi package on it's way.

Usage
-----

From CLI, using a configuration file:

Copy `netboxapi.json.example` file to `netboxapi.json` and edit that file to match your netbox instance url and token.

`python netboxapi_client.py -h` will give you the overview of the models you can act on. `-h` is available at each depth level of the cli.

Here are some examples:

.. code-block:: bash

	netboxapi_client -h
	netboxapi_client dcim -h category
	netboxapi_client dcim devices -h
	netboxapi_client dcim devices list
	netboxapi_client dcim devices create -d '$(cat mydevice.json)'
	netboxapi_client dcim devices create \
		-d '{ "name": "sw-02-par-eq2", \
		      "slug": "sw-02-par-eq2", \
		      "device_role": "1", \
		      "device_type": "8", \
		      "site": "184" }'
	netboxapi_client dcim devices show -n sw-02-par-eq2
	netboxapi_client dcim devices show -i 10
	netboxapi_client dcim devices delete -n sw-02-par-eq2

From code:

This is a very basic example:

.. code-block:: python

	from pprint import pprint
	from netboxapi_client import Api, get

	TOKEN = "thetokenyoucangetfromnetboxwebuionauserprofilepage"
	URL = "https://netbox.example.org"

	api = Api(url=URL, token=TOKEN)

	res = get(api, model="dcim", obj="devices", name="sw-02-par-eq2")

	pprint(res)

For now, you have to import the Api class and the function you need (get, get_list, update, create, delete, and so on...). This will be improved soon...

TODO
----

- prevent sending multiple requests/discovering the model if not required
- better catch exceptions to give users a more comprehensive output
- setup CI/CD pipeline and build status on github
- push docker image to public repo and add docker-compose.yml, entrypoint.sh to the repo, add testing process to documentation

Commit message:

Added documentation to run unit tests.

README.rst, after:

netboxapi-client
================

This is a python client for netbox (https://github.com/digitalocean/netbox) API. It can be used either as a python module/library or directly from the command line.
The goal of this project is to provide a simple way to automate infrastructure documentation based on the REST API from that great project that is Netbox.

Status
------

Under development

Installation
------------

You can clone that repo and install locally with:

.. code-block:: bash

	python setup.py build && pip install -e .

Proper pypi package on it's way.

Usage
-----

From CLI, using a configuration file:

Copy `netboxapi.json.example` file to `netboxapi.json` and edit that file to match your netbox instance url and token.

`python netboxapi_client.py -h` will give you the overview of the models you can act on. `-h` is available at each depth level of the cli.

Here are some examples:

.. code-block:: bash

	netboxapi_client -h
	netboxapi_client dcim -h category
	netboxapi_client dcim devices -h
	netboxapi_client dcim devices list
	netboxapi_client dcim devices create -d '$(cat mydevice.json)'
	netboxapi_client dcim devices create \
		-d '{ "name": "sw-02-par-eq2", \
		      "slug": "sw-02-par-eq2", \
		      "device_role": "1", \
		      "device_type": "8", \
		      "site": "184" }'
	netboxapi_client dcim devices show -n sw-02-par-eq2
	netboxapi_client dcim devices show -i 10
	netboxapi_client dcim devices delete -n sw-02-par-eq2

From code:

This is a very basic example:

.. code-block:: python

	from pprint import pprint
	from netboxapi_client import Api, get

	TOKEN = "thetokenyoucangetfromnetboxwebuionauserprofilepage"
	URL = "https://netbox.example.org"

	api = Api(url=URL, token=TOKEN)

	res = get(api, model="dcim", obj="devices", name="sw-02-par-eq2")

	pprint(res)

For now, you have to import the Api class and the function you need (get, get_list, update, create, delete, and so on...). This will be improved soon...

How-to test
-----------

Install docker and docker-compose and then:

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo docker-compose run --rm netbox createsuperuser

You will be prompted for a username, email and password for the superuser.

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo docker-compose up -d

Then you have to connect to the netbox instance you just installed. It should be accessible at http://localhost:8000 . Login with the credentials you choosed earlier. On the top right you can select username > profile. Then click on "API tokens" and create one (either use the one writen in tests/basic.py or choose one and replace the one in this file. (yeah token creation could be automated, it will be...)

.. code-block:: bash

  python tests/basic.py

TODO
----

- prevent sending multiple requests/discovering the model if not required
- better catch exceptions to give users a more comprehensive output
- setup CI/CD pipeline and build status on github
- push docker image to public repo and add docker-compose.yml, entrypoint.sh to the repo, add testing process to documentation
